# embedfiles

A simple go package that embeds static files in Go Binaries for packaging and easy release of software

## Use
#### Install the package
There are two ways you can go about this:
1. You can install from the command line by running `$ go get github.com/oluwadamilareolusakin/embedfiles`
2. You can add a go generate directive to your go binary after your last import statement `//go:generate go get github.com/oluwadamilareolusakin/embedfiles`. We will talk about how to run this in a second.

#### Point it at your static files
Add a `go generate` directive to your go binary `//go:generate embedfiles "see_first_arg_description_below" "path_to_static_files" "see_third_arg_description_below"

##### First arg description
The first argument to your command is the path where you want your newly generated package to live and be accessed from. Say I had a module called blog, which I want to embed files for. My folder structure may look something like:
.
|––blog                          # Top-level module name
├── ...
├── templates                 
│   ├── index.html            # shows all blog posts
│   ├── new.html              # Renders form to create new blog post
│   └── ...
├── server                    # Handles browser requests
│   ├── server.go        
│   ├── server_test.go 
├── pageio                    # Handles storing and retrieving blog pages
│   ├── pageio.go
├── ...

In this case, I may decide to add a subdirectory to `/blog/` named `statictemplates` as my new package name. Then my first argument may look like `../statictemplates/template.go`. My file structure then becomes:
blog                          # Top-level module name
├── ...
├── templates                 
│   ├── index.html            # shows all blog posts
│   ├── new.html              # Renders form to create new blog post
│   └── ...
├── server                    # Handles browser requests
│   ├── server.go        
│   ├── server_test.go 
├── pageio                    # Handles storing and retrieving blog pages
│   ├── pageio.go
├── statictemplates           # Directory and package file created after I run `go generate`
│   ├── template.go
├── ...

##### Third arg description
The third argument is the name of the package we mentioned above, in our case "statictemplates". This will ensure that our `tempate.go` file looks something like:

```
package statictemplates

....
......
```

#### Running the generate command
After you have completed all the steps above, you may run your generate command. In the root of your module, in our case `/blog/` you may run `$ go generate ./...`
This command will search for all `go generate` directives in the directory and run them. To confirm this worked, you can checkout `/blog/statictemplates/template.go` and you should see something like:

```
package statictemplates

// Code generated by go generate, DO NOT EDIT

func init() {
	vault.Add("/404.html", []byte{60, 104, 49, 62, 87, 104, 111, 111...})
  ...
}

type Vault struct {
	storageUnit map[string][]byte
}

func newVault() *Vault {
	return &Vault{storageUnit: make(map[string][]byte)}
}

func (vault *Vault) Add(filename string, content []byte) {
	vault.storageUnit[filename] = content
}

func (vault *Vault) GetFile(filename string) []byte {
	return vault.storageUnit[filename]
}

var vault = newVault()

func Add(filename string, content []byte) {
	vault.Add(filename, content)
}

func Get(filename string) []byte {
	return vault.GetFile(filename)
}
```
You can now use all the embedded files and the methods from the `statictemplates` package throughout your program

# Et Voila! You have generated a go binary that has your static files embedded as bytes. 

To use these files in your program, follow this steps:

## Add your new package to the imports of the files you wish to use your embedded files in

For example, if we want to use the files in `server.go` we may add the package import:
```
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"html/template"
	"log"
	"net/http"
    "regexp"
	"github.com/oluwadamilareolusakin/gowiki/pageio"
	"github.com/oluwadamilareolusakin/gowiki/statictemplates" // import added
)
```
## Fetch your embedded files for use
An example could be rendering a template for the `404.html` template we embedded:

```
func renderTemplate(w http.ResponseWriter, title string, page *pageio.Page) {

  templateKey := "/" + title + ".html" // something like "/404.html"
  data := string(statictemplates.Get(templateKey)) // using the .Get method from statictemplates
  templ := template.Must(template.New("").Parse(data))
  err := templ.Execute(w, page)

  handleError(w, err)
}
```

There you have it, you can now ship your apps without worrying about copying over static files and publishing them! Happy Tinkering! :🚀 
